README.md, before:

<div style="text-align: left;">
  <img src="logo/chace-logo.png" style="width:50%; margin: 0 auto;" />
</div>

*Pronounced: /tʃeɪs/ (chase)*

**CH**amal's **A**uto**C**omplete **E**ngine

## Overview

CHACE is a Rust-based engine designed for controlled AI-assisted code completion. Unlike traditional AI coding assistants that generate large code blocks, CHACE:

- targets empty function definitions at the cursor position
- Extracts the function signature and documentation (docstrings)
- Sends only the minimal context to the LLM
- Retrive function implementations from the LLM with optimal token efficiency

This approach keeps the AI focused on the specific task, reduces token usage, maintains precision and efficiency and produces more predictable results.

### Inspiration

CHACE is heavily inspired by ThePrimeagen's new approach to AI-assisted coding. While his implementation is built with Lua integrating Opencode (not yet open-sourced), CHACE takes a different architectural approach: built as a standalone Rust binary that operates independently and can be integrated into any editor through plugins. This design ensures CHACE is editor-agnostic, lightweight, and easy to extend to other development environments.

## Architecture

CHACE runs as a Unix socket server (`/tmp/chace.sock`) that accepts JSON requests containing source code and cursor position. The engine:

1. Parses the source code using Tree-sitter
2. Locates empty functions at the cursor
3. Sends function signatures to the configured LLM backend
4. Returns the generated function body with precise byte offsets

### Supported LLM Backends

- Google Gemini (gemini-2.5-flash)
- Groq (gpt-oss-20b)

### Language Support

Currently supports:
- Rust

## Installation

### Install via Cargo

```bash
cargo install chace
```

### Configuration

Set the required environment variables:

```bash
export GEMINI_API_KEY="your-gemini-api-key"
export GROQ_API_KEY="your-groq-api-key"
```

## Usage

### Running the Server

```bash
chace
```

The server listens on `/tmp/chace.sock` and handles concurrent connections.

### Request Format

Send JSON-encoded requests via the Unix socket:

```json
{
  "source_code": "fn add(a: i32, b: i32) -> i32 {\n\n}",
  "cursor_byte": 35,
  "backend": "Gemini"
}
```

### Response Format

```json
{
  "start_byte": 35,
  "end_byte": 36,
  "body": "    a + b",
  "error": null
}
```

### IDE Integration

CHACE is designed to be integrated with IDEs via plugins. See [chace.nvim](https://github.com/chamal1120/chace-nvim) for reference.

## Protocol

CHACE uses a line-delimited JSON protocol over a Unix socket:

- Each request is a single JSON object terminated by a newline
- Each response is a single JSON object terminated by a newline
- Multiple requests can be sent over the same connection
- Connections are handled asynchronously

## Development

### Build from Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/chamal1120/chace.git
cd chace
cargo build --release
```

### Adding Language Support

To add support for a new language:

1. Add the Tree-sitter grammar to `Cargo.toml`
2. Create a new backend in `src/languages/`
3. Implement function detection and signature extraction
4. Update the request handler in `main.rs`

### Adding LLM Backends

To add a new LLM provider:

1. Create a new module in `src/ai/`
2. Implement the `LLMBackend` trait
3. Add initialization in `main.rs`
4. Update the backend selection logic

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

rafactor: refactor the language modules
- move the utils/helpers out of rust_backend
- add a trait for implementing language_backends
- refactor rust_backend to follow the trait

README.md, after:

<div style="text-align: left;">
  <img src="logo/chace-logo.png" style="width:50%; margin: 0 auto;" />
</div>

*Pronounced: /tʃeɪs/ (chase)*

**CH**amal's **A**uto**C**omplete **E**ngine

## Overview

CHACE is a Rust-based engine designed for controlled AI-assisted code completion. Unlike traditional AI coding assistants that generate large code blocks, CHACE:

- targets empty function definitions at the cursor position
- Extracts the function signature and documentation (docstrings)
- Sends only the minimal context to the LLM
- Retrive function implementations from the LLM with optimal token efficiency

This approach keeps the AI focused on the specific task, reduces token usage, maintains precision and efficiency and produces more predictable results.

### Inspiration

CHACE is heavily inspired by ThePrimeagen's new approach to AI-assisted coding. While his implementation is built with Lua integrating Opencode (not yet open-sourced), CHACE takes a different architectural approach: built as a standalone Rust binary that operates independently and can be integrated into any editor through plugins. This design ensures CHACE is editor-agnostic, lightweight, and easy to extend to other development environments.

## Architecture

CHACE runs as a Unix socket server (`/tmp/chace.sock`) that accepts JSON requests containing source code and cursor position. The engine:

1. Parses the source code using Tree-sitter
2. Locates empty functions at the cursor
3. Sends function signatures to the configured LLM backend
4. Returns the generated function body with precise byte offsets

### Supported LLM Backends

- Google Gemini (gemini-2.5-flash)
- Groq (gpt-oss-20b)

### Language Support

Currently supports:
- Rust

## Installation

### Install via Cargo

```bash
cargo install chace
```

### Configuration

Set the required environment variables:

```bash
export GEMINI_API_KEY="your-gemini-api-key"
export GROQ_API_KEY="your-groq-api-key"
```

## Usage

### Running the Server

```bash
chace
```

The server listens on `/tmp/chace.sock` and handles concurrent connections.

### Request Format

Send JSON-encoded requests via the Unix socket:

```json
{
  "source_code": "fn add(a: i32, b: i32) -> i32 {\n\n}",
  "cursor_byte": 35,
  "backend": "Gemini"
}
```

### Response Format

```json
{
  "start_byte": 35,
  "end_byte": 36,
  "body": "    a + b",
  "error": null
}
```

### IDE Integration

CHACE is designed to be integrated with IDEs via plugins. See [chace.nvim](https://github.com/chamal1120/chace-nvim) for reference.

## Protocol

CHACE uses a line-delimited JSON protocol over a Unix socket:

- Each request is a single JSON object terminated by a newline
- Each response is a single JSON object terminated by a newline
- Multiple requests can be sent over the same connection
- Connections are handled asynchronously

## Development

### Build from Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/chamal1120/chace.git
cd chace
cargo build --release
```

### Adding Language Support

To add support for a new language:

1. Add the Tree-sitter grammar to `Cargo.toml`
2. Create a new backend in `src/languages/`
3. Implement the `LanguageStandard` trait with the following methods:
4. Return `FunctionInfo` objects containing:
5. Update the request handler in `main.rs`

### Adding LLM Backends

To add a new LLM provider:

1. Create a new module in `src/ai/`
2. Implement the `LLMBackend` trait
3. Add initialization in `main.rs`
4. Update the backend selection logic

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
